> A **Security Audit** is a review of an organization's *security controls*, *policies*, and *procedures* against a set of expectations. 

> Audits are independent *reviews that evaluate whether an organization is meeting internal and external criteria*. Internal criteria include outlined policies, procedures, and best practices. External criteria include regulatory compliance, laws, and federal regulations.

#### Goals and Objectives of a Security Audit 

- The goal of an audit is to ensure an organization's information technology (IT) practices are meeting industry and organizational standards.
- The objective is to identify and address areas of [[../Glossary/remediation]] and growth. Audits provide direction and clarity by identifying what the current failures are and developing a plan to correct them.

#### The role of frameworks and controls in audits

> Frameworks such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (**NIST CSF**) and the international standard for information security (**ISO 27000**) series are designed to help organizations prepare for regulatory compliance security audits.

> By [[../Glossary/adhering]] to these and other relevant frameworks, organizations can save time when conducting external and internal audits.

- A security framework is like a blueprint or a rulebook for building a secure **organization**. 
- Meanwhile **security control** is a *specific action*, safeguard, or mechanism used to protect systems and data. 

> Frameworks define what security should look like, controls are how we implement it.

Checkout : 
[[3. Conducting a Security Audit]]