>  An organization's quick attempt to identify an attack, contain the damage, and correct the effects of a security breach. 

#### Incident Response Playbook 

- An incident response playbook is just at step by step guide that tells a SOC when a *specific* security incident happens. 
- There for an analyst wont' waste time or panic figuring out what to do.  
- Using playbooks makes incident response faster, consistent and less error-prone. 
- Playbooks and SIEM tools go hand it hand. 

> Playbooks should be treated as **living documents**, which means that they are *frequently updated by security team members* to address industry changes and new threats. Playbooks are generally *managed as a collaborative effort*, since security team members have different levels of expertise.

####  When updates are often made to Playbook?

- A **failure is identified**, such as an oversight in the outlined policies and procedures, or in the playbook itself.
- There is a **change in industry standards**, such as changes in laws or regulatory compliance.
- The **cybersecurity landscape changes** due to evolving threat actor tactics and techniques.

#### Common steps included in incident and vulnerability playbooks

1. **Preparation** -This is everything done before an attack happens.
2. **Detection** - This is where the SOC detects and investigates suspicious activity.
3. **Containment** -Now the goal is to stop the attack from spreading.
4. **Eradication** - Remove the root cause of the attack.
5. **Lessons Learned** (Post-Incident Review) -After everything is fixed, the team studies what happened and how to improve.

#### [[../../Misc/SOAR tool]]
